>>We are accustomed
to our own technology
and find it difficult to
recognize that the ancients may
have had sophisticated
technology of their own.
Since the technology of the
ancients is not obvious to us,
are we looking in
the wrong place?
Could it be they
had power systems,
but they were entirely
different from ours today?
[THEME MUSIC]
>>Looking at the architecture
of structures from ancient Egypt
stimulates a sense of wonder.
Clearly, Egyptian monuments
rival the grandeur
of our most modern
buildings today.
Yet, we are taught
to believe that we
are the ones with knowledge
of high technology, something
the ancients could
not possibly have had.
>>As long as we think
that the ancients weren't
able to use high technology,
then we're not looking for it.
And yet, the evidence is
right in front of our eyes.
>>We find megalithic sites
everywhere around the world,
but there's certain
things in common
that they all seem to
know, and we don't know it.
>>A lot of people are
trying to figure out
why mankind built
these structures out
of these huge megalithic stones.
We don't even know how to
move 200, 300 ton stones very
well today, let alone
4,000 or 5,000 years ago.
>>I started looking at
megalithic structures
from an electromagnetic
point of view,
and sure enough, I began to find
that there were these energies
there present in
measurable forces.
>>Strange things happen
sometimes at sacred sites,
and those are clues that
the physics that we're
taught in school
is not everything.
>>For thousands of years,
the pyramids and the Sphinx
stood as sentinels
on the open desert.
Yet, in recent years, a
20-mile wall 14-feet high
was installed around the
enormous site of the Giza
Plateau.
There are about 100 armed
guards patrolling the pyramids
at night.
Applications for investigative
academic research,
while entertained initially, are
almost all routinely refused.
Unlike in times past,
tourists are now
being restricted from
taking photographs
in the Egyptian museum.
The monuments of Egypt
are World Heritage sites.
Why is access and legitimate
scientific research
being systematically restricted?
Much of ancient Egypt
remains undiscovered.
Satellite images show
traces of buried structures
that are still not excavated.
In the name of protecting
sites, are Egyptian authorities
preventing us from learning the
truth about our ancient past?
Despite strict regulations
on what kind of research
is allowed, there is still
an extraordinary amount
of evidence that shows that the
ancient Egyptians had knowledge
that has been lost.
>>We don't have the technology
to build the pyramids now.
Not even close.
We're not the most
evolved we've ever been,
and that is one of the
blinders that has stopped us
from imagining that
the ancients could
have been far smarter than us.
>>Hakim Awyan was raised
by indigenous elders who
lived in the area of
the Band of Peace.
Having preserved the
ancient Souf language,
stories were passed down
generation after generation.
Fragments of knowledge
from the ancient past
were thus preserved.
>>If my colleagues,
the scholar or
learn to say that the
Egyptians had a piece of rope,
put it around a block of
stone at least 60 ton weight
and pulled and pushed by animals
and run on wooden blocks,
this is what the
scholars are saying.
>>We may never be exactly sure
how the pyramids were built.
Yet, we can begin to
reconstruct our understanding
of the culture living in the
Golden Age and their values.
Traditional Egyptology
insists that the pyramids
were built by slaves to
feed the egos of kings.
Does this fit with
our emerging construct
of Egypt in a golden age?
>>There is no slavery.
All workers are willingly
pyramids builder.
This is a qualified people
of architecture, engineers,
and they deal with all the
power like cutting stones,
transfer it, and use it.
And that is clear not
only in the pyramids,
and in the temple
walls, and many
places you can see that clearly.
>>There are clues
throughout Egypt
that point to knowledge
of high technology.
A fascinating thing occurred
when a chunk of stone
recently fell off a
lintel at Abydos Temple,
and controversial images
resembling a helicopter
and other
advanced-looking vehicles
were revealed under the stone.
It would seem that the
images were covered
in the distant past when things
were changing politically
in Egypt.
Nowadays, Egyptian tour
guides are explicitly
instructed not to point
these out to tourists.
The Egyptological explanation is
that it is multiple hieroglyphs
overlapping from distant
kings' inscriptions.
But, like many things in
Egypt, the explanation
is still debatable.
Another controversial object
that Egyptologists merely
deem impossible is
the artifact commonly
known as the
Baghdad Battery that
generates a mild
electrical charge.
Similar ancient artifacts
that match these objects
have been found in Egypt.
We can't say for
certain, but it would
appear that the
Egyptians documented
the existence of these
artifacts as well.
Recreations of these
objects have been made
and have successfully
created electric current.
Also noteworthy are
strange representations
of objects that resemble light
bulbs found in the crypts
at Dendera.
There was no natural light
inside these underground
crypts, but we see no soot
from torches or oil lamps,
the only lights we
know the ancients used.
Could the ancient
Egyptians have had
their own source of
electrical power?
If nothing else, the ancients
had to cut, move, and lift
massive stone blocks that would
challenge our engineers today.
What was their secret?
We automatically assume
that ancient structures
are for ceremonial and
religious purposes.
Maybe the pyramids served a
completely different function
than previously imagined.
>>There's been
lots of speculation
about what the pyramids
were actually built for.
The most accepted notion
is that they were tombs.
>>Much more
complicated situation
with the Great Pyramid
than most people understand
or most people believe,
including a lot
of Egyptologists
who see it simply
as a tomb for the Pharoah Khufu.
>>That idea is childish
for the following reason.
I mean, it's obvious.
We don't find mummies
in the pyramids.
>>And, of course, not
finding a single mummy
in any of the
pyramids doesn't seem
to deter the people who think
that that's what they were for.
>>Yes, there's something
that's sometimes
referred to as a
stone sarcophagus,
or coffer in it, a
beautiful granite structure.
But that doesn't prove
definitively in my mind
that it was ever
actually used for a tomb.
It may have been used
for many other purposes.
>>Pyramids were
built not as a tomb.
There are some pyramids built
in a different construction,
like the one in Saqqara,
Step Pyramid, that is tomb.
>>Look at the obvious
difference in construction
between the Step Pyramid
and the Great Pyramid.
The difference in
style of construction
would logically
indicate they were
built in different time frames.
The buildings we
know to be tombs,
like the Step Pyramid at Saqqara
and the flat-topped mastabas
also at Saqqara,
are very different
from the smooth-sided
pyramids at Giza and Dahshur.
Typically in Egypt,
older constructions
are built of larger
stones, new constructions
are built of smaller stones.
Also in archaeology, older
structures are deeper,
newer structures are found
closer to the surface.
Every other tomb
that has been found
is highly decorated with
names of the occupant.
The inside of these pyramids
seems solely functional
and not decorative at all.
>>But if we stop all
together and say, OK,
if they weren't
tombs, what were they?
>>What are the
biggest structures
that modern man
builds on the planet?
The biggest, most awe-inspiring
structures we create
are hydroelectric dams.
Why are we willing to invest
such awe-inspiring amounts
of labor and effort
in constructing those?
Because we know we're going
to get a very valuable
physical return in the
form of electricity.
And by comparison, I wonder if
the ancient megalith builders
weren't willing to invest such
staggering amounts of resources
by even smaller populations
because they knew that they
could get something very
physical and worthwhile
back from it.
>>People are fascinated
by Egyptian monuments,
and some report the energy
is palpable at these sites.
Is it possible to
confirm this energy
through scientific means?
>>What I've been finding the
last 20 years of research,
is a lot of
experiments have been
done that show that there's
a certain type of energy that
does not exist in
our current science.
It's unknown to our
current science.
We call it subtle energy.
>>This is a whole
new trend of thought
in looking at ancient structures
that maybe the ancients
understood subtle energies.
>>So this appears to
be a technology that
may have existed in
megalithic societies.
You know, these--
these societies
that built things
out of big stones.
>>It makes sense that you could
motivate an entire population
to invest so heavily in building
these structures, I think.
And I don't mean
to say by any means
that this is the only
purpose of the megaliths,
but I think it's pretty
clear that it's at least one
of the primary, or one
of the important purposes
for building these structures.
We find megalithic sites
everywhere around the world,
and there-- there's a
tendency to make circles
or certain types of formations.
>>Megalithic sites occur
all over the world.
Is their placement random?
Or does the location
of these sites
reveal yet another hidden
layer of ancient knowledge?
>>One thing I found looking at
different megalithic structures
over a few continents
in numerous places
around the world,
overwhelmingly, these places,
the pyramids, the Stonehenges,
et cetera of the world
were placed on ground where
an unusual type of geology
naturally concentrates
the regular daily natural
electromagnetic fluctuations
that occur everywhere
on the Earth each day.
>>You go into England, for
example, the ley lines that
cross England, the Michael line,
which is hundreds of miles long
that crosses
England, that carries
this energy along that line.
>>It will therefore
generate electric currents
in the land, called
telluric currents
in the straight geological
sense of that word,
and those occur
everywhere on the planet.
>>But we know that this ley
energy, this subtle energy
passes along these lines.
>>There are certain
special types of geology
that will magnify
those several fold.
And that's where we found the
megalith builders preferred
to put their-- their monuments.
>>And typically where
the lines cross,
where you get more than
one line intersecting,
temples were often built.
>>These are called conductivity
discontinuities, which
sounds highly technical,
but it's merely
the place where one area of
ground that has a good ability
to conduct electricity meets
another area of ground that
has a lesser ability to
conduct these natural electric
currents.
>>The Chinese had
the same tradition.
They called them dragon lines.
It was illegal for a commoner
to be buried on such a line.
A king had to be
buried on such a line.
They put the palaces there.
There's a whole series
of sacred sites.
They're always built
on lines like this.
>>I want to say in this area
about the location of temple.
You have to have a symbols
appear on the ground.
When it's seen, then this is
the place where people naturally
come to get more healthy
energy from that spot.
You know, energy
perhaps from the Earth.
>>And it appears as though
they were attempting
to control the
flow of this energy
and use it for
their own purposes.
>>The key hours, unfortunately,
are the predawn hours.
If you really want
to study this,
you've got to get up at 3:00
and get out there very fast.
That's because the--
the energy that's
involved in these sites that's
really fueling most of it
originates with the daily
changes in the Earth's
geomagnetic field.
Its strongest during the
day, weakest at night.
And in the hours
leading up to dawn,
the weaker field
lines now come roaring
back to closer to full
strength very quick.
It's the most
dramatic time in terms
of change of magnetic
strengths per hour,
it's the most dramatic
time of the day.
And wherever you have a changing
magnetic field occurring,
you are generating
electric current
in anything present that
will conduct electricity.
It's a simple principle of
physics known as induction,
and it's a universal.
>>Normally in everyday
life, we don't ever
see large concentrations
of this energy.
Normally it'll show up at the
mountaintops, at sacred sites.
You'll feel a certain
calm, a certain peace.
Sometimes people in those places
report mystical experiences.
They'll see into
some other dimension.
OK, they'll see into
some other time.
The Chinese have known
about this for a long time,
and they call it Chi.
The Hindus in their ancient
texts call it prana.
And the Yogis, with the maintain
of range and tradition, use it.
It affects a-- a variety
of different processes,
electricity, magnetism has
a strong effect on that.
So it modifies all the
other laws of physics.
When you look back on how
sacred sites were chosen
and buildings like the pyramids
were-- were constructed,
the suspicion arises
that they understood
quite a bit more about
this stuff than we do.
And they may have been using
it in their engineering.
>>Then, the megalith builders
designed these structures
and then built them
in such a way as
to further concentrate
those energies.
So they definitely seem to have
known what they were doing.
>>We are not used
to things built out
of stone being high technology.
It is clear that
several different kinds
of stone from a
variety of sources
were used to construct
Egyptian monuments.
Did the distinct
qualities of the stone
serve a special purpose?
>>What I do find fascinating is
that the core of the pyramids,
at least at Giza, are made
out of one type of limestone.
Now, it is the limestone
that was closest,
but it also happens to be the
type that's called dolomite
because it's got a
high magnesium content.
And because of that metal
content, that kind of limestone
conducts electricity
pretty well.
And then they chose to sheath
the pyramid in the wider Tura
limestone, which
granted it's wider
and it's prettier and
all that; but it's also
has almost zero
magnesium content.
And therefore, it's a
much poorer conductor
of electricity.
It's closer to a pure
calcium carbonate,
which is what all limestone is.
And pure calcium carbonate
conducts electricity
much more poorly
than dolomite does.
It's interesting to me
that those outer stones
were the ones that
they cut so precisely
that all these
thousands of years later
you still can't get a
razor blade between them.
Because basically,
what we've got here
is we've got a situation with a
highly electrically conductive
core of those pyramids
wrapped in what is effectively
a very effective insulator.
Why the granite in the
passageways, you know?
And so, of course, I'm thinking
from an electrical point
of view and a physical
point of view,
is there anything
special about granite?
And yeah, there is.
Granite is slightly
radioactive and it
will ionize, or
electrify, the air.
It releases radon gas,
which is radioactive.
>>Granite is a
transmission stone.
It's not dead stone, it's alive.
>>So, you have these sealed
shafts with granite linings
and I wonder if
it wasn't designed
to keep an electrical charge
present in those shafts.
They were built exactly like,
if you will, an insulated wire.
Only more so, because
you've got all the charge
in the ground, that's
spread across the base,
concentrated all the way up
into this tiny spot at the top.
>>We find similarities in
three different constructions.
The one at Giza, Valley
Temple, and one at Abydos,
and another one
abroad in England,
the Stonehenge,
the same material
being constructed with, and
same way, and same technique.
But the construction there,
it's built in addition
to have the water because it's
water bed-- it's a huge water
bed and it's still working,
still producing water.
>>In Egypt, you do have a
similar situation to England
in that you have limestone
aquifers under the monuments.
>>An aquifer is an
underground layer
of porous water-bearing rock.
Water flows through the
aquifers as rainfall.
Or when rivers and lakes flood,
the water drains into them.
>>And movement of water through
limestone or chalk aquifers
is known to produce
electrical charge
by two different processes
that are self-reinforcing.
And I've personally
measured this for a week
at a stretch at Solsbury
Hill in England, for example.
Right before and
after thunderstorms
as the water is sinking
into the ground,
we measured the increase
in ground current,
the change in the magnetic field
as that happened, et cetera.
And in Egypt, you had the
Nile crashing, you know,
dropping every year and
then flooding again.
And that movement of water up
and down through the layers
of limestone would
generate electrical charge.
Flowing water generates a-- at
least a mild electrical charge,
which means it generates
an electric current, which
means it generates a
magnetic field as well.
So if you were looking to
give an electrical charge
a little boost to say a
mound or something like that,
it makes a lot of sense to have
at a minimum running water.
And, in fact, at Tiwanaku on the
south shore of Lake Titicaca,
their biggest monument,
the Akapana Pyramid,
was terraced in such a way as
to have the water come down
in waterfalls that alternated
outside the pyramid,
inside the pyramid.
But that kind of
falling water generates
enough electric charge that one
of the common school physics
experiments is you can
in your own sink at home,
if you can divide the stream of
water coming out of your faucet
into two separate streams, you
can take a little LED indicator
light and put it
between the streams
and it'll generate enough
electricity that maybe every 20
seconds or so the-- the
light bulb will come on.
And then the
question is, did some
of those layers of limestone
run up to the Giza Plateau?
And they did, and
they did come up
to the surface underneath
where some of the pyramids
are located.
The idea would be that-- that it
would be the rising and falling
of the Nile that would
produce this electric ground
current by moving through
the different layers
of the limestone aquifer.
And when there was a
dip, say, in that supply,
maybe that's when the ionized
air in the granite shafts
and galleries could help keep
the process going, if you will.
I tend to wonder if the
electrified shafts might not
have been able to act
in a similar fashion
to your car battery when
you come to a stoplight.
Normally, your
battery is not being
used when you're
driving your car,
the alternator
provides all the juice.
But when you stop
and that alternator
is turning very weakly, that's
when you want the battery there
to keep everything going so
your engine doesn't cut out.
So you've got this
concentration of negative charge
from the ground at the peak
of the pyramid or mound,
and a concentration of
positive charge above it.
And if those two
become strong enough,
you can start to get
brush discharge, which
would mean it would glow like
a ball lightning for example.
It's a theory.
>>Why in the Great Pyramid
is there no frescoes,
there's nothing, no
decorations at all.
Now, some people have
proposed the idea
that the pyramids are
actually energy machines.
And so, I liken
this to the fact,
like, you wouldn't put a
decoration inside your oven.
>>I was talking
with a woman who had
spent some time in
the Great Pyramid,
and her comment was, it felt
like I was in a machine.
She said it was not like this,
oh, it's a wonderful shrine.
She said it felt
very functional.
In fact, she made a
comment that I actually
think is probably right on.
She said, I felt
as if I wouldn't
have wanted to be in
here when it was running.
>>Invisible, subtle energy
occurs around us all the time
and is measurable by science.
>>We had noticed a lot
of people showing us
photographs from
megalithic sites
that disproportionately
often seemed
to have these balls of light
in there, usually flash photos.
>>Orbs are often written off
as dust or other particles
in the air.
But that does not
change the fact
that they seem to
occur more often
in particular places
at particular times.
>>At Tikal, at the top of the
most energetic pyramid that we
found down there, uh, we
took a lot of flash photos
during the course of our
eight-hour stakeouts,
which would run from roughly
3:00 AM till 11:00 AM.
And on the pyramids that
were electrically dead,
that had no juice,
nothing going on,
which were the big fancy
ones, but the most recently
built ones, uh, there-- we
would take photos and find out
eventually when
they were developed
no orbs, no glowing
balls of light.
But on the oldest
pyramid down there,
where we did work and
got all kinds of results,
that was 1,200 years older
than the big fancier ones,
in that case, the-- the
photography we got back
from our own simple
flash cameras,
uh, they were literally choking
the screen with these balls
at the period at
which the air was
highest in electrical charge.
And on that-- the
strongest day down there,
I was recording
electrical charge higher
than I've recorded even in
thunderstorms back home.
We don't know what orbs are,
but we-- our personal guess
is that they're balls of
ionized or electrified air
that will tend to hang together.
Uh, a good analogy would
be ball lightening,
where it's simply so electrified
that the molecules are
excited enough to glow.
>>Other evidence
shows that there
is energy occurring
naturally everywhere
on the planet that our
science knows about, but seems
to ignore.
Nikola Tesla sought to provide
the world with free wireless
electricity for
everybody on Earth.
He discovered that
electricity occurred naturally
throughout the Earth's
atmosphere and ground,
the telluric currents
in the ground
that John Burke discussed
and the electricity
present in the ionosphere
and the atmosphere, which
is ionized by the sun.
He also created and developed
ways to harness those energies.
>>Tesla.
Who teach Nikola Tesla to get
to that power of electricity?
And he-- he-- he-- he didn't
invent it, it's already there,
but he know how to use it.
And not only that, he
did not take an advantage
like Mr. Edison.
>>Tesla wanted to harness
the natural energy that
exists everywhere on Earth and
make it free to the public.
Edison endeavored to produce
and distribute electricity
by creating a regulated
monopoly for profit.
>>He become rich, and the people
more light into their home.
So Nikola Tesla,
he's the one think
of how to use this energy.
>>Between 1901 and
1917, the Tesla Tower
was built on Long Island
as a wireless broadcasting
system for telephone
and electrical signals.
Interestingly, it was
constructed on an aquifer
with descending passageways
and tunnels beneath it.
At the time, few
understood how it worked.
Tesla's funding was ultimately
dropped by JP Morgan
because Tesla wanted
the wireless electricity
to be free, and therefore, JP
Morgan couldn't make a profit.
So even though Tesla's
genius was seen by many,
he was still driven
into obscurity.
The energy to create
free wireless energy
has always existed on our
planet, and still exists today.
>>And it's not only energy
on our planet that's plenty.
The rivers are flow by energy.
A tsunami is energy.
Frequencies are energy.
If we have the electricity now,
it's based on explosion energy.
Now, the sound energy
based on technology
different from the
explosion energy,
and it's known as
implosion energy.
>>This energy was not
the kind of energy
that we have that pollutes.
It was a completely passive
energy that had no by-products.
>>The energy we use today
is generated by combustion
and is non-renewable.
It is called explosion
energy and leaves
exhaust and pollution.
>>Our system all
over the planet today
is based on the
explosion energy.
That's why the petrol
is so expensive.
>>In contrast, implosion energy
like solar panels and wind
power, is clean and renewable.
We are beginning to realize
that we need sustainable energy.
>>Implosion energy, very simple.
All what you need is the beam
of the sun on a running water.
Not just running in a straight
line, but in a zig-zag.
And that-- you'll
find all the tunnels
are in a zig-zag form
for such a purpose.
>>In addition to the
limestone aquifers
underneath the
pyramids, there is
evidence of a network
of man-made tunnels.
>>As a boy, when I'm
living in my house, which
is a few hundred yards
away from the nose
of what we call the Sphinx,
this was my playing yard.
And I know the tunnels.
I walked in these tunnels.
I swim in these tunnels.
I crawled in these tunnels.
And I know that this is
one way of creating energy.
Now, this is costs nothing.
I mean, all what
you need is a beam
of the sun reaching the running
water underneath the tunnel,
and you can see that there are
many openings in each tunnel
to admit this beam--
sunbeam reach the water.
And when it does, then
the energy is there.
Energy is not just
to run your car,
it's run the people,
feed the people.
>>If the pyramid fields
of the Band of Peace
and the network of underground
tunnels are still there,
why don't they generate
energy the way they used to?
>>In the condition
of the pyramids
now, stripped of those smooth
insulating outer casings,
it's going to leak
electrical air about
as well as a car
radiator radiates heat.
I mean, it's almost perfectly
designed to weaken that.
And yet still, you get
these reports of people
like Siemens, who was one of
the pioneers of electricity,
and in-- he was an Englishman.
There's even a
unit of electrical,
I believe, resistance named
after him, called the Siemens.
He was on top of
the Great Pyramid,
I think during the
1880s, and they
began to notice that when his
Arab guide stood up and spread
his fingers, they'd
hear a ringing.
And, um, when he closed
them, you wouldn't.
And he stood up,
and I guess he could
sense the literal electricity
in the air, and on the spot,
he improvised an instant
Leyden jar, which
is one of the earliest
things they used
to use to store electric charge.
And he did it by opening a wine
bottle, wetting some newspaper,
wrapping the wet newspaper
around the glass wine bottle
and holding the wine
bottle up above his head
until sparks started to
issue from the wine bottle.
And at that point,
his Arab guide
started calling-- accusing
him of things like witchcraft.
They got into a
physical struggle,
and he accidentally
touched one of the guides
with the charged wine bottle
and it knocked the man
to the ground and unconscious
for a short period, after which
they took off down the pyramid.
But there was, in other words,
a professional scientist
familiar with electricity in its
rudimentary but accurate forms
sensing exactly that, even
in this ruined condition
that the pyramid's
in today, yeah.
>>If you come to
the Egyptian Museum,
there is an item over there
known as the Schist Disc found
by Dr. Walter
Emery, and he said,
or he think that this could
be a vase for a lotus flower.
No.
>>The Schist Disc was founded
at Saqqara in a burial chamber
that no one is allowed to visit.
Other goods found in the chamber
were simple ropes, pottery,
and grains.
The disc shows clear evidence
of sophisticated technology
in the way it was
built, and it seems out
of context with the
rest of the grave goods.
Is this the original
context for this artifact?
Or is it possible
that it has had
a long journey over the
last several millennia
and this just happened to
be its final resting place?
Look at this hollow stone tube.
It looks as though the Schist
Disc could fit over it.
It would take
sophisticated instruments
to shape the tube so precisely.
How did they do it?
>>To cut the stone,
this is by a sonic cut
with no metal instruments like
a bronze chisel or this, no.
It's another stone
and this other stone,
it's hard, hardest stone you
can find, which is the diamond.
>>There are pieces
of stone lying around
that show concave
shapes that actually
have the machine
tooling marks on it.
The evidence of
the high technology
is right in front of us.
>>Look again at
these quartz objects.
Aside from their unique
and amazing shapes,
could they have had
another purpose?
Today, quartz crystal
is used as the basis
of all kinds of
modern technology.
It is most commonly used
in crystal oscillators.
Technology uses oscillating
frequencies from tiny quartz
crystals that vibrate
at certain speeds
with a signature
vibration for each device.
AM-FM radios, CDs, and
DVDs, computer processors,
and ethernet rely
on quartz crystals.
Could it be that
the ancients were
tapping into this
technology and using it
on a much larger scale in a way
we can only begin to imagine?
Of course, we can't
say for certain,
but based on what we've
seen, we can theorize.
Energy can be created and
manipulated in many ways.
It is the lifeblood
of a civilization,
and therefore, an
important resource.
>>In Egypt, there are
67 constructions all
along the Nile like sails.
And for those who
has the eye, they
can tell from the shape of that
construction, the straight form
of angles that is a pyramid
or a construction for energy,
a plant for energy.
That's what you have.
>>A theory that's
always struck me,
that they were intended
actually to somehow
or another spiritualize
a whole civilization.
In other words, to provide a
widespread high level of energy
that people needed because the
descending age was upon them.
>>And I believe what the pyramid
and other cert-- certain other
structures were constructed
for was to basically act
as a kind of-- the
equivalent of a street light.
You know, if you're in a
neighborhood that's maybe
not the nicest
neighborhood and, you know,
it gets dark at night, you like
to have bright lights go on.
And that's effectively
what the Great Pyramid was.
Now, these were not
lights that illuminated it
so that people could see
where they were going.
It was basically a device, a
generator for, if you will,
broadcasting and transmitting
throughout the planetary
structure a type of field which
uplifted the entire humanity.
>>And maybe those pyramids were
built in some sense or another
to, to stay the decline.
Let's call them, in
some sense or another,
spiritual granaries,
designed to somehow store
an emotional or spiritual
or psychological
or some sort of energy that
was needed to keep people
from becoming the
total barbarians
that they subsequently became.
>>We had the ability to
basically prop up humanity
for a while using this
system, but what we saw
was the-- the street
light eventually went out.
>>The original
knowledge got lost,
and the later builders were
building them out of ego.
They were monuments to
the king, if you will.
But they were no
longer engines that
could help feed their people.
>>Catastrophes around the
world damaged or, if you will,
decommissioned some
of these sites.
So some of them went offline,
just like a power plant
going offline.
>>I tend to wonder
if the few people who
knew the secrets to the energy
connection with those pyramids
didn't die off.
If it was a thin
chain of, for example,
a shaman to his apprentice, and
if the wrong people get killed
at the right time,
that chain is broken,
that knowledge gets lost.
>>As long as we think we are
more advanced than we've ever
been, we are blind to technology
based on subtle energies.
>>It's not fair also.
It's not fair to deny
what you can see and touch
by your own hand.
This is only the technique, and
we have that technique still,
but nobody wants to listen!
[THEME MUSIC]